I"Ÿ<p>As someone who didn‚Äôt like giving or asking for advices, starting a blog where I‚Äôm sharing my ideas and opinions might seems like a contradiction, but as I said in the very first post of this blog I‚Äôm doing this for my own benefit. whenever I‚Äôm writing a new post I‚Äôm practically talking to myself, but if someone somehow finds it useful then that‚Äôs awesome, but its not my goal to tell people what to do I‚Äôm just sharing my thoughts from my humble experience.</p>

<h2 id="why-i-dont-like-advices">Why I Don‚Äôt Like Advices</h2>
<p>I think I need to make things more clear when I say that I do not like advices. Don‚Äôt get me wrong I do believe that sometimes some types of advices  works, I just think that most of ‚Äúsuccessful‚Äù people tend to believe that thier journey is completely replicable when in fact no one‚Äôs is. There‚Äôs so many examples of very successful people didn‚Äôt realize that they were doing the right thing until it eventually paid off  and sometimes they don‚Äôt even comprehend how circumstances played in their advantage and how luck can actually determine a lot of your decisions in life. Therefore even when these advices come with good intentions they can lead to serious discouragement and disappointment when they don‚Äôt work out well.</p>

<h2 id="no-one-knows">No One knows</h2>
<p>No one know the secrets to success not even great successful people. 
The other day I was reading about Bayesian Statistics and found out that in fact Thomas Bayes who actually came up with the conditional probability equation which we now know as Bayes‚Äôs theorem one of the most important theorems in statistics (if not the most ) he never published it because he didn‚Äôt think it something of any value in fact it was published after his death and we have Thomas‚Äôs friend Richard Price to thank for that, he found it his apartment and arranged it for its posthumous publication (actually while writing this I found this so interesting that it deserves its own whole post). I also remember reading something similar Franz Kafka the genius novelist who ordered his servant to burn all of his useless mediocre work (in his opinion) after his death, but luckily for humanity his servant didn‚Äôt listen to him. 
Some people  just love asking for advices even on obvious things Goerge Hotz the  founder of comma ai (a company that makes self driving cars computers) said this when he was asked about giving advices to this type ofpeople ‚ÄúI will write a self help book and charge 67$ for it then I‚Äôm going to write on the very first page of this book: ‚Äòall of this advices are meaningless but you gonna be sucker and buy it anyway‚Äô‚Äù I loved his answer because sometimes people wants to be told advices just because it would make them feel better about themselves they‚Äôll think just by seeking advices they‚Äôre already better people which is nice way to think about yourself I guess, but can be very misleading or even harmful on the long run.</p>

<p>I think the only type of advices you can actually give are either technical or very specific where you almost giving instructions. You can‚Äôt give advice for someone who asks ‚Äúhow can I learn X ?‚Äù I don‚Äôt know, Google it ? ‚Äúhow can I be good at Y‚Äù do it a lot maybe. These types of questions are annoying, I mean a lot of things in this life just kind of work out, you should stop wasting your time looking for advices and short cuts you‚Äôll end up waste more time. If someone would ask me how i managed to get good exam score in a certain course I‚Äôd probably tell them to ware blue shirt on the day of the exam, because I remember doing better in exams when I ware blue shirts. This actually as relevant as telling them to study hard or telling them not to skip lectures. I think deep down they know exactly what they should do and what they are really after is the sense of reassurance that comes from people giving us advices because at the end what is an advice anyway? I like to define it as: the best guess to how thinks actually work out to best case scenario (or any good enough scenario that made people ask you for advices )‚Äù it‚Äôs basically like saying things will be fine if you do this which is something you just cann‚Äôt guarantee, ‚Äúguess‚Äù is the  keyword here you never know what really happened. I think you can actually tell a lot about people just by how comfortable they‚Äôre with saying ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know‚Äù.</p>

<h2 id="final-thoughts">Final Thoughts</h2>
<p>I have to admit that my view on this topic is bit exreme and biased maybe because of the many advices that were useless or because of all the times I did the oppiste of what I was told and  things turned out very good. Maybe this whole post will be awkward if one I publish a book or give a talk at some event in which I‚Äôm baisclly telling people advices, but who knows maybe I look back at this post few years from now and I‚Äôll feel  proud that I changed the way I think about this. 
Finally if I had to give someone one piece of advice it would definitely be ‚Äúdo not listen to me‚Äù.</p>

<p>If I don‚Äôt publish another post next week I‚Äôll probably wont for a long time even though I actually have some drafts for a few more posts but I‚Äôm expecting a busy schedule next month so maybe no new post till October.</p>
:ET